README.md, before:

# Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar
This repository represents the official implementation of the paper "Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar", arXiv 2024

![teaser](/images/teaser.png)

Authors:
[Weihan Luo](https://weihan1.github.io),
[Anagh Malik](https://anaghmalik.com),
[David B. Lindell](https://davidlindell.com)

[![Website](images/badge-website.svg)](https://weihan1.github.io/transientangelo/)
[![Paper](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-PDF-b31b1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12191)

## 📰 News
2024-09-06: Uploaded model checkpoints for reproducibility (see Usage section). 

2024-08-21: Official code release.


## 🔨 Installation

1. Create a new conda environment (make sure miniconda3 is installed beforehand). We tested on python version 3.8.13
```
conda create -n env_name python=3.8.13
conda activate env_name
```
2. Additionally please install PyTorch>=1.10 from (https://pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/). We tested on pytorch1.13.0 with cuda11.6. Be aware of some issues between NerfAcc and other Pytorch versions here: https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/207

3. Install the requirements file with 

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/weihan1/transientangelo.git
cd transientangelo/
```


## 🖨️ Dataset 
The dataset is located on Huggingface at https://huggingface.co/datasets/weihan1/transientangelo_dataset/tree/main


Before cloning the dataset, make sure that you have [git-lfs](https://git-lfs.com) installed.
To download, use the following command:
```
git clone https://huggingface.co/datasets/weihan1/transientangelo_dataset
```
**load** is name of the dataset for the normal experiments and **low_photon_transients** is the name of the dataset for the low photon experiments. After you clone the dataset you'll need to move them out of transientangelo_dataset/ and into transientangelo/


The datasets tree structure looks like this inside transientangelo:
```bash
load
├── captured
│   ├── baskets
│   ├── boots
│   ├── carving
│   ├── chef
│   ├── cinema
│   ├── food
│   ├── get_max.py
│   └── pulse_low_flux.mat
└── simulated
    ├── benches
    ├── chair
    ├── ficus
    ├── final_jsons
    ├── final_jsons_new
    ├── hotdog
    └── lego

low_photon_transients
├── captured
│   ├── baskets
│   ├── boots
│   ├── carving
│   ├── chef
│   ├── cinema
│   └── food
└── simulated
    ├── benches
    ├── chair
    ├── ficus
    ├── hotdog
    └── lego
models
...
systems
```


## 👨‍🍳 Usage

### Memory Usage 
All experiments are ran on a single RTXA6000 GPU with 48GB of memory. There are a couple ways to reduce the memory usage to fit on smaller GPUs. For instance, you can reduce the size of the model (i.e. reducing `config.model.geometry.xyz_encoding_config.log2_hashmap_size`). Furthermore, you can also skip evaluation by setting `config.trainer.val_check_interval` to a value larger than `config.trainer.max_steps`.


### Training
The training command structure will be as follows:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --train dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS>
```
Two main configs: `transient-neuralangelo-blender.yaml` and `transient-neuralangelo-captured.yaml` are our configs for the simulated and captured dataset, respectively. On the low photon experiments, please use the `transient-neuralangelo-blender{PHOTON_LEVEL}.yaml` and `transient-neuralangelo-captured{PHOTON_LEVEL}.yaml`. In the current code base, evaluation will follow immediately after training (or by pressing CTRL+C). 

For multi-gpu training, you can specify multiple gpu ids.

### Evaluation
If you decide to run evaluation, you will be using this command structure:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --resume <CKPT_PATH> --test dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS>
```
The <CKPT_PATH> will be the checkpoint path ending with ckpt.
NOTE: The config that you are loading for eval has to be the same config that you train with.

Instead of evaluating performance, you can also resume training from checkpoint by simply replacing --test to --train.

### Reproducing numbers
Checkpoints for our method have been uploaded to HuggingFace and can be downloaded via:
```
git clone https://huggingface.co/weihan1/transientangelo_checkpoints
```
Again, make sure you have git-lfs downloaded.

### Making 360 degrees videos
For the 360 degrees videos, you need a trained model and 360 degrees poses (I can send through email). Then, simply use the evaluation command structure (with the corresponding config path) and append `dataset.name=captured-movie system.name=movie-system` for the captured dataset and `dataset.name=blender-movie system.name=movie-system` for the simulated dataset. Looks like this:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --resume <CKPT_PATH> --test dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS> dataset.name=blender-movie system.name=movie-system
```

### Simple config settings
The default config settings can be customized: 

`config.model.ray_chunk` controls the size of the chunk of rays that is being used for rendering during eval. You can decrease/increase this number to accelerate the validation/testing step. Select divisors of 262144 (since the image size is 512x512). 

`config.system.loss.{lambda_integrated_l1, lambda_space_carving, lambda_eikonal, lambda_regnerf_depth_variance, lambda_sparsity, sparsity_scale}` these are essentially the weights corresponding to $\{\lambda_{\text{ref}}, \lambda_{\text{sc}}, \lambda_{\text{eik}}, \lambda_{\text{weightvar}}, \lambda_{\text{sparse}}, \alpha \}$. 

`config.trainer.max_steps` and `config.val_check_interval` controls the total number of training steps and the number of steps interval for validation. 

`config.checkpoint.every_n_train_steps` controls the number of steps for saving checkpoints.

## 🎓 Citation
```
@inproceedings{luo2024transientangelo,
  title = {Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar}, 
  author = {Luo, Weihan and Malik, Anagh and Lindell, David B.},
  journal = {arXiv},
  year = {2024}
}
```

## 🔧 General troubleshooting advice
| Problem                                     | Solution                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Program freezes during ray marching.        | Delete the cache located at `~/.cache/torch_extensions/` (see [issue #260](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/260)) |
| RuntimeError: CUDA error: invalid configuration argument       | This error seems to be present in pytorch versions 1.12.1+cuda11.6, please switch to pytorch 1.13.0 (see [issue #207](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/207))  |




## 📣 Acknowledgements
We thank [TransientNeRF](https://github.com/anaghmalik/TransientNeRF) for their implementation of transient volume rendering. We thank [NerfAcc](https://www.nerfacc.com) and [instant-nsr-pl](https://github.com/bennyguo/instant-nsr-pl) for their implementation of efficient ray marching and surface-based rendering.

Commit message:

added new instruction to generate 360 poses

README.md, after:

# Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar
This repository represents the official implementation of the paper "Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar", arXiv 2024

![teaser](/images/teaser.png)

Authors:
[Weihan Luo](https://weihan1.github.io),
[Anagh Malik](https://anaghmalik.com),
[David B. Lindell](https://davidlindell.com)

[![Website](images/badge-website.svg)](https://weihan1.github.io/transientangelo/)
[![Paper](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-PDF-b31b1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12191)

## 📰 News
2024-09-06: Uploaded model checkpoints for reproducibility (see Usage section). 

2024-08-21: Official code release.


## 🔨 Installation

1. Create a new conda environment (make sure miniconda3 is installed beforehand). We tested on python version 3.8.13
```
conda create -n env_name python=3.8.13
conda activate env_name
```
2. Additionally please install PyTorch>=1.10 from (https://pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/). We tested on pytorch1.13.0 with cuda11.6. Be aware of some issues between NerfAcc and other Pytorch versions here: https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/207

3. Install the requirements file with 

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/weihan1/transientangelo.git
cd transientangelo/
```


## 🖨️ Dataset 
The dataset is located on Huggingface at https://huggingface.co/datasets/weihan1/transientangelo_dataset/tree/main


Before cloning the dataset, make sure that you have [git-lfs](https://git-lfs.com) installed.
To download, use the following command:
```
git clone https://huggingface.co/datasets/weihan1/transientangelo_dataset
```
**load** is name of the dataset for the normal experiments and **low_photon_transients** is the name of the dataset for the low photon experiments. After you clone the dataset you'll need to move them out of transientangelo_dataset/ and into transientangelo/


The datasets tree structure looks like this inside transientangelo:
```bash
load
├── captured
│   ├── baskets
│   ├── boots
│   ├── carving
│   ├── chef
│   ├── cinema
│   ├── food
│   ├── get_max.py
│   └── pulse_low_flux.mat
└── simulated
    ├── benches
    ├── chair
    ├── ficus
    ├── final_jsons
    ├── final_jsons_new
    ├── hotdog
    └── lego

low_photon_transients
├── captured
│   ├── baskets
│   ├── boots
│   ├── carving
│   ├── chef
│   ├── cinema
│   └── food
└── simulated
    ├── benches
    ├── chair
    ├── ficus
    ├── hotdog
    └── lego
models
...
systems
```


## 👨‍🍳 Usage

### Memory Usage 
All experiments are ran on a single RTXA6000 GPU with 48GB of memory. There are a couple ways to reduce the memory usage to fit on smaller GPUs. For instance, you can reduce the size of the model (i.e. reducing `config.model.geometry.xyz_encoding_config.log2_hashmap_size`). Furthermore, you can also skip evaluation by setting `config.trainer.val_check_interval` to a value larger than `config.trainer.max_steps`.


### Training
The training command structure will be as follows:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --train dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS>
```
Two main configs: `transient-neuralangelo-blender.yaml` and `transient-neuralangelo-captured.yaml` are our configs for the simulated and captured dataset, respectively. On the low photon experiments, please use the `transient-neuralangelo-blender{PHOTON_LEVEL}.yaml` and `transient-neuralangelo-captured{PHOTON_LEVEL}.yaml`. In the current code base, evaluation will follow immediately after training (or by pressing CTRL+C). 

For multi-gpu training, you can specify multiple gpu ids.

### Evaluation
If you decide to run evaluation, you will be using this command structure:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --resume <CKPT_PATH> --test dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS>
```
The <CKPT_PATH> will be the checkpoint path ending with ckpt.
NOTE: The config that you are loading for eval has to be the same config that you train with.

Instead of evaluating performance, you can also resume training from checkpoint by simply replacing --test to --train.

### Reproducing numbers
Checkpoints for our method have been uploaded to HuggingFace and can be downloaded via:
```
git clone https://huggingface.co/weihan1/transientangelo_checkpoints
```
Again, make sure you have git-lfs downloaded.

### Making 360 degrees videos
For the 360 degrees videos, you need a trained model and 360 degrees poses (i can send them to you or you can also checkout TineuVox in lib/load_dnerf.py, there's some code to generate 360 degree poses). Then, simply use the evaluation command structure (with the corresponding config path) and append `dataset.name=captured-movie system.name=movie-system` for the captured dataset and `dataset.name=blender-movie system.name=movie-system` for the simulated dataset. Looks like this:
```
python launch.py --config <CONFIG_PATH> --gpu <GPU_ID> --resume <CKPT_PATH> --test dataset.scene=<SCENE> dataset.num_views=<NUM_VIEWS> dataset.name=blender-movie system.name=movie-system
```

### Simple config settings
The default config settings can be customized: 

`config.model.ray_chunk` controls the size of the chunk of rays that is being used for rendering during eval. You can decrease/increase this number to accelerate the validation/testing step. Select divisors of 262144 (since the image size is 512x512). 

`config.system.loss.{lambda_integrated_l1, lambda_space_carving, lambda_eikonal, lambda_regnerf_depth_variance, lambda_sparsity, sparsity_scale}` these are essentially the weights corresponding to $\{\lambda_{\text{ref}}, \lambda_{\text{sc}}, \lambda_{\text{eik}}, \lambda_{\text{weightvar}}, \lambda_{\text{sparse}}, \alpha \}$. 

`config.trainer.max_steps` and `config.val_check_interval` controls the total number of training steps and the number of steps interval for validation. 

`config.checkpoint.every_n_train_steps` controls the number of steps for saving checkpoints.

## 🎓 Citation
```
@inproceedings{luo2024transientangelo,
  title = {Transientangelo: Few-Viewpoint Surface Reconstruction Using Single-Photon Lidar}, 
  author = {Luo, Weihan and Malik, Anagh and Lindell, David B.},
  journal = {arXiv},
  year = {2024}
}
```

## 🔧 General troubleshooting advice
| Problem                                     | Solution                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Program freezes during ray marching.        | Delete the cache located at `~/.cache/torch_extensions/` (see [issue #260](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/260)) |
| RuntimeError: CUDA error: invalid configuration argument       | This error seems to be present in pytorch versions 1.12.1+cuda11.6, please switch to pytorch 1.13.0 (see [issue #207](https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/nerfacc/issues/207))  |




## 📣 Acknowledgements
We thank [TransientNeRF](https://github.com/anaghmalik/TransientNeRF) for their implementation of transient volume rendering. We thank [NerfAcc](https://www.nerfacc.com) and [instant-nsr-pl](https://github.com/bennyguo/instant-nsr-pl) for their implementation of efficient ray marching and surface-based rendering.
